What is Animal Context: Animal is an Indian Hindi-language action drama film directed and edited by Sandeep Reddy Vanga, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Pranay Reddy Vanga and Saurabh Gupta. The film is produced by Bhushan Kumar, Pranay Reddy Vanga, Krishan Kumar and Murad Khetani under T-Series Films, Bhadrakali Pictures and Cine Studios. The film stars Ranbir Kapoor, Anil Kapoor, Bobby Deol, Rashmika Mandanna and Tripti Dimri. In the film, Ranvijay "Vijay" Singh learns about an assassination attempt on his father and sets out to exact revenge.The film was officially announced in January, along with the title of the film. Principal photography commenced in April  and wrapped by April. The film has music composed by JAM, Vishal Mishra, Jaani, Manan Bhardwaj, Shreyas Puranik, Ashim Kemson and Harshwardhan Rameshwar. The cinematography was handled by Amit Roy and editing by Sandeep Reddy Vanga. With a runtime of  minutes, the film was one of the longest Indian films ever made.Animal was initially set for an  August  release but was postponed due to post-production work.[] It was theatrically released on  December  in Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada languages in standard and IMAX formats.[] The film received mixed reviews from critics and audiences and broke several box office records for a Hindi film, including the highest non-holiday opening, biggest single days, highest opening weekend and highest opening week in India. At the overseas box-office, it broke several records and eventually emerged as the highest-grossing Indian film in Australia and Canada. It grossed ₹. crore (US$ million) worldwide and emerged as a major commercial success becoming the third highest-grossing Indian film of , the fifth-highest-grossing Hindi film of all time, th highest-grossing Indian film of all time and the highest-grossing A-rated Indian film of all time. It also became the highest-grossing film of Ranbir Kapoor's career

what is the Plot Context: Ranvijay "Vijay" Singh is the son of Balbir Singh, a Delhi-based business magnate who heads the generational steel company called "Swastik Steels". He has adored his father since childhood, but Balbir neglects him due to his busy schedule. After an incident where Vijay ambushes his sister's bullies with an AK-, Balbir sends him away to a boarding school in the United States. Vijay returns after completing his education and convinces his former schoolmate Geetanjali, whom he has always loved, to break off her engagement and choose him. During Balbir's th birthday, Vijay argues with his sister's husband Varun, and is kicked out of the house. He breaks off contact with his family, marries Geetanjali, and moves to the United States, where the couple has two children. Eight years later, he learns that his father was shot by unidentified assailants, prompting him to return to India to find the person responsible. He rounds up his cousins from his native village in Punjab to help in his mission and sets up a doppelgänger named Kailash for Balbir. Kailash is killed by Asrar Haque's team as they mistake him to be Balbir.Vijay discovers that Varun was involved in the assassination attempt and kills him during a meeting. He then goes to a hotel to meet an arms dealer, but Asrar's team arrives in droves to kill him. After a lengthy battle, he defeats them but sustains brutal injuries and goes into a coma. Upon waking two weeks later and undergoing a heart transplant, Vijay learns that his heart donor was the fiancé of a woman named Zoya. Vijay begins an affair with Zoya, who soon falls for him. Zoya reveals that she was sent by Asrar's brother Abrar Haque.Abrar had sent Zoya to honey trap Vijay to kidnap and replace him with a doppelgänger who would massacre his family. Vijay reveals that he knew this all along and simply wanted to discover the identity of the actual perpetrator. He learns from his grandfather Rajdheer that Abrar and his brothers are part of Vijay's family; they are the grandsons of Rajdheer's younger brother Shamsher Singh, making Vijay their cousin. Abrar planned the attempt on Balbir's life to avenge his father Azim Haque, who was denied a share of their property.This led to Shamsher committing suicide in front of Abrar, which traumatized him and rendered him mute. Vijay and his cousins barge into Abrar's house in Scotland to kill him but learn that Abrar has escaped with his brother Abid in their private jet. They stop the flight and Vijay and Abrar engage in a brutal fight that ends with Vijay killing Abrar. During the family Diwali celebration, Balbir reveals that he has terminal cancer and has realised his failures as a father. Balbir finally reconciles with Vijay, who rejoices in attaining his love after many years.In the post-credits scene, Aziz revealed to be another one of Abrar's brothers, has successfully undergone plastic surgery to become Vijay's doppelgänger and Zoya is now pregnant, though unsure if the baby is Aziz's or Vijay's. Aziz kills two of Vijay's cousins and sets out with Abid to exact vengeance on Vijay for his brothers' deaths.



Give me the complete cast of Animal Context: Ranbir Kapoor in a dual role as Ranvijay Balbir Singh and Aziz Haque.Ahmad Ibn Umar as young Vijay.Anil Kapoor in a dual role as Balbir Singh and Kailash Petkar.Bobby Deol as Abrar Haque.Leon Ung as young Abrar.Rashmika Mandanna as Geetanjali 'Gitu' Singh, Vijay's wife.Diyara Valecha as young Geetanjali.Tripti Dimri as Zoya Riaz.Charu Shankar as Jyoti Singh, Balbir's wife,and Reet, Vijay and Roop's mother.Babloo Prithiveeraj as Asrar Haque, Abrar's brother.Shakti Kapoor as PK Mishra, COO of Swastik Steels Corp.Prem Chopra as Dalbir Dodamal Singh "Bade Daji", Rajdheer's elder brother.Madhu Raja as Rani Kaur "Beeji", Dalbir Singh's wife.Suresh Oberoi as Rajdheer Dodamal Singh "Dadaji", Vijay's grandfather and Balbir's father.Saurabh Sachdeva as Abid Haque, Abrar's brother.Saloni Batra as Reet Singh, Vijay's elder sister and Varun's wife, Balbir and Jyoti's eldest child Neeven Vaid as young Reet.Anshul Chauhan as Roop Singh, Balbir and Jyoti's youngest child, Vijay and Reet's younger sister.Eva Chibber as young Roop.Siddhant Karnick as Varun Pratap Malhotra, Reet's husband, and Vijay's brother-in-law, Balbir's Son-in-law
Maganti Srinath as Karthik, Geetanjali's elder brother and Vijay's friend.Upendra Limaye as Freddy Wilfred Patil.Mathew Varghese as Shreepad Balaji Iyengar, Karthik and Geetanjali's father.Indira Krishnan as Motika S. Iyengar, Karthik and Geetanjali's mother.Mrinmayee Godbole as Dr. Amrita Naidoo


Production In September , it was reported that Sandeep Reddy Vanga would turn into a producer for his next directional venture in Bollywood. It was further reported that he would produce the venture along with Murad Khetani, Ashwin Varde, Bhushan Kumar and Kishan Kumar under Cine Studios and T-Series. On  October, the company's and Vanga's new production banner Bhadrakali Pictures announced their collaboration for Vanga's next directional; marking their second collaboration after Kabir Singh ().In early December, Vanga was reported to have approached Ranbir Kapoor to play the lead role in the film. ETimes reported that Kapoor was "keen" to work on the film, however, would finalize it only after hearing the final script, which was still progressing writing.In June  however, it was reported that Vanga met Kapoor in January and narrated another script, which was reportedly titled Devil. In late December, Anil Kapoor was reported to be part of the cast. On  January , the company's made an official public announcement of the venture, revealing also the title of the film and the crew.In late April, Bobby Deol and Parineeti Chopra were cast, with the former playing lead antagonist role, while the latter plays lead actress role. In March , Rashmika Mandanna was reported to dance in an item number for the film. The same month, it was reported that Chopra had replaced by Mandanna,as the director was not satisfied with the casting of chopra. On  April, Mandanna's commitments were officially announced.Mandanna called it "a dream come true." Filming Principal photography began in Manali in April . The second schedule was in Mumbai in May  and filming was held at Pataudi Palace in July . The next schedules were held in Delhi and Punjab. The filming was wrapped up in mid-March . The film resumed in England and Scotland beginning in April with a schedule of – days.
Release Animal was initially set for an  August  release, but was postponed due to post-production and dubbing work.[] It was theatrically released on  December  in standard and IMAX formats in Hindi with dubbed versions in Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada languages.[] The film was released across  screens in India, the screen count was impacted due to the clash with Sam Bahadur which was releasing on the same day.The film had planned to premiere in North America on  November , a day before its release.[] In the United States, it will be screened in  theaters, marking the highest number for a Hindi film, surpassing the screen count of Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva  and Jawan. Animal received an A (adults only) certificate from the Central Board of Film Certification, a day prior to its trailer release, for strong bloody violence, profanity and some sexuality.[] It has been classified  by the British Board of Film Classification for the same reason.[]Reception Box office Animal broke several box-office records for a Hindi film.[][][][] The film had the fourth-biggest advance booking in Hindi cinema, and the third-highest for  after Jawan and Pathaan.[] On its opening day, the film collected a total India net of ₹. crore (US$. million) second highest after Jawan, worldwide gross of ₹ crore (US$ million) including overseas gross of US$. million (₹ crore). Eventually it became the highest non-holiday opening of all time for a Hindi film breaking the previous record held by Ranbir Kapoor's Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva.[] On its second day, netted over ₹ crore and over ₹ crore on third day in India for a three days total net collection of ₹ crore and became one of the fastest Hindi film to achieve this after Jawan.[][] Worldwide it earned over ₹ crore (US$ million) for three consecutive days during its opening weekend, for a total worldwide weekend gross collection of ₹ crore (US$. million).[] It had one of the highest Hindi net collection on its first Monday and Tuesday.[][] In the first week it earned a total worldwide gross collection of ₹ crore (US$ million). On its th day, the film surpassed the lifetime worldwide collection of Sanju () and becomes the highest-grossing film of Kapoor's career. On its th day, the film reached ₹ crore net collection across all languages in India and on the same day the film crosses  crore footfalls in India. Box Office India declared the film as All Time Blockbuster. In the United States, the film was released alongside Renaissance: A Film by Beyoncé, Silent Night, Godzilla Minus One, and The Shift, and made $. million from  theatres in its opening weekend, finishing in seventh place, behind the second weekend totals of Wish and Napoleon.[] Worldwide, it emerged as the No.  film on its opening weekend with the total of $. million including the $. million of international markets, surpassing all the films globally. In its first week the film earned over $. million from international markets. As of  January , the film has grossed over ₹. crore (US$ million) in India and ₹. crore (US$ million) in overseas for a worldwide gross collection of ₹. crore (US$ million).

Give your review of Animal Context: While I have not seen the movie myself yet. Here are some reviews 
Critical response The film received mixed reviews from critics and audiences with praise for its storytelling, direction, soundtrack, score, action sequences, and Kapoor's performance but some critics found it misogynistic and very lengthy.
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, % of  critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of ./. The website's consensus reads: "Overlong, overly violent, and thinly written, Animal goes wildly over the top to little avail."[] Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of  out of , based on  critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews. Awarding the film ./ stars, Bollywood Hungama praised "Ranbir Kapoor’s outstanding performance, clap-worthy massy scenes, and interval block."[] Sukanya Verma of Rediff gave / stars and wrote "Animal is relentless as a euphoric medley of feral rage and dance of the dysfunctional. The twists go on well until end credits as more blood is splattered our way."[] Ganesh Aaglave of Firstpost gave ./ stars and wrote "Animal is an adrenaline experience which will have polarising views but you can't deny its entertaining quotient, breathtaking performances and storytelling."[] Puja Awasthi of The Week gave ./ stars and wrote "Animal for all its blood and gore, is the story of a son’s aching desire for his father’s approval. Why even its ballads are less romance, more revenge. And its female characters for all their luminosity, are just props". Monika Rawal Kukreja of Hindustan Times found it "an absolute massy, entertaining and extremely violent thriller which doesn't believe in conforming to the norms", while adding that the extreme violence might be off-putting for some. Titas Chowdhury of News gave ./ stars, labelled it "dark, loud and garish but also unapologetic", and thought that Ranbir Kapoor "breathes life into this undesirable character with a lot of charisma and swag".[] Abhimanyu Mathur of DNA India rated the film ./ and opined, "Animal takes everything that was problematic and increases it several notches. It is downright the most violent Hindi film I have seen, and also one of the most inherently toxic and misogynist. The amazing part is that it is still very well made and entertaining, enhanced further by yet another great performance from Kapoor". Conversely, Renuka Vyavahare of The Times of India gave ./ stars and termed the film "all swag and no substance derailed family drama"; she was critical of "Vanga's take on women or violence" but praised Ranbir's "raw sex appeal and unmatched intensity". India Today's Anvita Singh gave / stars and wrote "Ranbir Kapoor is stellar in problematic, paper-thin film." Nandini Ramnath of Scroll.in wrote "Ranbir is on fire, inhabiting to a frightening degree Vijay’s delusional personal war. Reptile-eyed even at his smouldering best, Kapoor’s career-best performance makes Animal tough to stomach, but equally difficult to ignore". In a negative review, Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express expressed disappointment that the performances of Ranbir and Anil Kapoor had been "wasted in this pointless, vile tale". Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV gave ./ stars and wrote "The sickeningly violent father-son action drama rarely pauses for breath." Sowmya Rajendran of The News Minute gave ./ stars and wrote "Sandeep Reddy Vanga's movie has the kind of writing you'll find in BDSM erotica like Fifty Shades of Grey, but presented with the same earnestness of 'pure love' that we saw in Arjun Reddy." Phuong Le of The Guardian gave / stars and wrote "Animal sinks even further into regressive depths, resulting in one of the vilest protagonists to have graced the big screen."

Tell me about Animal Sequel Context: Sequel The film's post-credits scene teases a sequel titled Animal Park, which was confirmed in December  by director Sandeep Reddy Vanga. Shortly after the film's release, Vanga said the sequel would be "darker" and "meaner" than its predecessor.



Who is Ranbir Kapoor Context: Ranbir Kapoor is an Indian actor known for his work in Hindi-language films. He is one of the highest-paid actors of Hindi cinema and has featured in Forbes India's Celebrity  list since . Kapoor is the recipient of several awards, including six Filmfare Awards. The son of actors Rishi Kapoor and Neetu Singh, and the grandson of actor-director Raj Kapoor, Kapoor pursued filmmaking and method acting at the School of Visual Arts and the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute, respectively. He subsequently assisted Sanjay Leela Bhansali on the film Black () and made his acting debut with Bhansali's tragic romance Saawariya (), a critical and commercial failure. He rose to prominence with the coming-of-age film Wake Up Sid, the romantic comedy Ajab Prem Ki Ghazab Kahani (both ), and the political drama Raajneeti (). Kapoor's performances as a troubled musician in Rockstar () and a cheerful deaf-and-mute man in Barfi! () earned him two consecutive Filmfare Awards for Best Actor. The romantic comedy Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani () further established him as a star. This was followed by a series of commercial failures, with Ae Dil Hai Mushkil () and Sanju () being the exceptions. His portrayal of Sanjay Dutt in the latter won him another Filmfare Award. Following a hiatus, he had further commercial success in the fantasy film Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva () and the action drama Animal (), with the latter emerging as his highest-grossing release. In addition to his acting career, Kapoor supports charities and causes. He is also a co-owner of the Indian Super League football team Mumbai City FC. He is married to the actress Alia Bhatt, with whom he has a daughter.Nationally, he is one of the most popular and high-profile celebrities.[165] In 2012 and 2013, Forbes featured him among the top twenty in India's Celebrity 100, a list based on the income and popularity of the country's celebrities.[166][167] For the next two years, he was ranked 11th with an estimated annual earning of ₹93.25 crore (US$12 million) and ₹85 crore (US$11 million) respectively, making him one of the highest-paid actors in the country.[168][169] He was frequently featured in Rediff.com's annual listing of "Bollywood's Best Actors"; he was ranked second in 2009,[170] first in 2011,[171] third in 2012,[172] and held the sixth position in 2015.[173]
He has been cited as one of the most attractive Indian celebrities by the media.[174] He has featured on The Times of India's listing of the 'Most Desirable Man' from 2010 to 2015, ranking among the top ten each year.[175] In 2009 People magazine listed him as the "Sexiest Man Alive" in India,[176] and in 2013 he topped Filmfare's poll of the "Most Stylish Young Actor".[177] Also in 2013, he was one of the recipients of the "People of the Year" award by the Limca Book of Records.[178] In 2010, he was voted the "Sexiest Asian Man" in a poll conducted by the magazine Eastern Eye.[179] Kapoor continued to feature among the top ten of the list from 2011 to 2014.[180] He is also the celebrity endorser for various brands and services, including Pepsi, Panasonic, Renault India, Lenovo and the Spanish football club FC Barcelona.[181]


Who is Sandeep Reddy Vanga Context: Sandeep Reddy Vanga is an Indian film director, screenwriter and editor who works in Telugu and Hindi cinema. Vanga made his screenwriting and directing debut with the  Telugu film Arjun Reddy, starring Vijay Deverakonda. It was a commercial success, gaining him recognition. He continued his success with its Hindi-language remake, Kabir Singh (), with Shahid Kapoor in the lead. Kabir Singh ranks among the highest-grossing Hindi films of all time. Vanga's prominence increased with his next action-drama, the Hindi-language film Animal, starring Ranbir Kapoor which broke several box office records and emerged as the th highest-grossing Indian film and the highest-grossing A (adults only) rated Indian film of all time. Vanga worked as an apprentice for the film Manasu Maata Vinadhu in 2005 for 25 days at Rushikonda Beach, Vizag. He worked for a few Tollywood films, including Kedi (2010) as an assistant director with Kiran Kumar and Malli Malli Idi Rani Roju (2015) as an associate director with Kranthi Madhav. He started writing the script for a film titled Sugar Factory for his directorial debut, but he eventually shelved it and started writing the script of Arjun Reddy instead. Sandeep Vanga started writing the script for Arjun Reddy in 2013 and finished it in two years. Producer Swapna Dutt and Sharwanand showed interest to produce and act in the film, however, it did not pan out as expected as Sharwanand had multiple projects in the queue at the time. He was introduced to Vijay Deverakonda by a common friend. He cast him as the lead for his directorial debut Arjun Reddy. The film was released on 25 August 2017 to critical acclaim and became a blockbuster hit. It was produced on a minuscule budget of ₹4–5 crores, but went on to gross more than ₹50 crores (US$8 million) at the box office.[3][4][5] However, during the release, it constantly ran into trouble with the censor board for the depiction of smoking and drug use. It also created a furor for its kissing scenes and poster, which were eventually approved by the Telangana Film Chamber. Senior political leader, V. Hanumantha Rao, raged over the positioning of the film to the audience. He went on to publicly peeling off the posters of the film, encouraging the audience to not entertain such films. Sandeep Vanga himself agreed to direct the Hindi version of Arjun Reddy titled Kabir Singh.[6] He signed up Shahid Kapoor as the lead. Kiara Advani was roped into playing the female lead. The film was produced by Murad Khetani and Ashwin Warde, and the rights to the original film were purchased for ₹15 million. The filming began in July 2018 and the movie was released on 21 June 2019. It became a major blockbuster success at the box office, earning over ₹379 crore (US$47 million) worldwide and over ₹278 crore (US$35 million) net domestically in India. In January 1 2021, Vanga's next directorial titled Animal, a gangster drama film starring Ranbir Kapoor in lead was announced. It was produced by T-Series, Bhadrakhali Pictures, and Cine1Studios.[7] Animal released on 1 December 2023. It received mixed response from the critics and grossed over ₹900 crore (US$110 million) worldwide. Emerged as a major commercial success becoming the third highest-grossing Indian film of 2023, the eighth highest-grossing Indian film, and the highest-grossing A-rated Indian film of all time.His next directorial, Spirit, was announced in October 2021. It will star Prabhas, in his 25th film, and produced jointly by T-Series and Bhadrakali Pictures.[9] Later, he announced, his 5th directorial in March 2023. The film is set to star Allu Arjun, and produced jointly by T-Series and Bhadrakali Pictures.[10] Animal sequel, titled Animal Park is also in development, which is announced in Post Credit scene of Animal.





