Animal is a 2023 Indian Hindi-language action drama film directed and edited by Sandeep Reddy Vanga, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Pranay Reddy Vanga and Saurabh Gupta. The film is produced by Bhushan Kumar, Pranay Reddy Vanga, Krishan Kumar and Murad Khetani under T-Series Films, Bhadrakali Pictures and Cine1 Studios. The film stars Ranbir Kapoor, Anil Kapoor, Bobby Deol, Rashmika Mandanna and Tripti Dimri. In the film, Ranvijay "Vijay" Singh learns about an assassination attempt on his father and sets out to exact revenge.

The film was officially announced in January 2021, along with the title of the film. Principal photography commenced in April 2022 and wrapped by April 2023. The film has music composed by JAM8, Vishal Mishra, Jaani, Manan Bhardwaj, Shreyas Puranik, Ashim Kemson and Harshwardhan Rameshwar. The cinematography was handled by Amit Roy and editing by Sandeep Reddy Vanga. With a runtime of 201 minutes, the film was one of the longest Indian films ever made.

Animal was initially set for an 11 August 2023 release but was postponed due to post-production work.[8] It was theatrically released on 1 December 2023 in Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada languages in standard and IMAX formats.[9] The film received mixed reviews from critics and audiences, and broke several box office records for a Hindi film, including the highest non-holiday opening, biggest single days, highest opening weekend and highest opening week in India. At the overseas box-office, it broke several records and eventually emerged as the highest-grossing Indian film in Australia and Canada. It grossed ₹887.69 crore (US$110 million) worldwide and emerged as a major commercial success becoming the third highest-grossing Indian film of 2023, the fifth-highest-grossing Hindi film of all time, 9th highest-grossing Indian film of all time and the highest-grossing A-rated Indian film of all time. It also became the highest-grossing film of Ranbir Kapoor's career


Plot
Ranvijay "Vijay" Singh is the son of Balbir Singh, a Delhi-based business magnate who heads the generational steel company called "Swastik Steels". He has adored his father since childhood, but Balbir neglects him due to his busy schedule. After an incident where Vijay ambushes his sister's bullies with an AK-47, Balbir sends him away to a boarding school in the United States. Vijay returns after completing his education and convinces his former schoolmate Geetanjali, whom he has always loved, to break off her engagement and choose him.

During Balbir's 60th birthday, Vijay argues with his sister's husband Varun, and is kicked out of the house. He breaks off contact with his family, marries Geetanjali, and moves to the United States, where the couple has two children. Eight years later, he learns that his father was shot by unidentified assailants, prompting him to return to India to find the person responsible. He rounds up his cousins from his native village in Punjab to help in his mission and sets up a doppelgänger named Kailash for Balbir. Kailash is killed by Asrar Haque's team as they mistake him to be Balbir.

Vijay discovers that Varun was involved in the assassination attempt and kills him during a meeting. He then goes to a hotel to meet an arms dealer, but Asrar's team arrives in droves to kill him. After a lengthy battle, he defeats them but sustains brutal injuries and goes into a coma. Upon waking two weeks later and undergoing a heart transplant, Vijay learns that his heart donor was the fiancé of a woman named Zoya. Vijay begins an affair with Zoya, who soon falls for him. Zoya reveals that she was sent by Asrar's brother Abrar Haque.

Abrar had sent Zoya to honey trap Vijay to kidnap and replace him with a doppelgänger who would massacre his family. Vijay reveals that he knew this all along and simply wanted to discover the identity of the actual perpetrator. He learns from his grandfather Rajdheer that Abrar and his brothers are part of Vijay's family; they are the grandsons of Rajdheer's younger brother Shamsher Singh, making Vijay their cousin. Abrar planned the attempt on Balbir's life to avenge his father Azim Haque, who was denied a share of their property.

This led to Shamsher committing suicide in front of Abrar, which traumatized him and rendered him mute. Vijay and his cousins barge into Abrar's house in Scotland to kill him but learn that Abrar has escaped with his brother Abid in their private jet. They stop the flight and Vijay and Abrar engage in a brutal fight that ends with Vijay killing Abrar. During the family Diwali celebration, Balbir reveals that he has terminal cancer and has realised his failures as a father. Balbir finally reconciles with Vijay, who rejoices in attaining his love after many years.

In the post-credits scene, Aziz revealed to be another one of Abrar's brothers, has successfully undergone plastic surgery to become Vijay's doppelgänger and Zoya is now pregnant, though unsure if the baby is Aziz's or Vijay's. Aziz kills two of Vijay's cousins and sets out with Abid to exact vengeance on Vijay for his brothers' deaths.



Cast
Ranbir Kapoor in a dual role as Ranvijay Balbir Singh and Aziz Haque
Ahmad Ibn Umar as young Vijay
Anil Kapoor in a dual role as Balbir Singh and Kailash Petkar
Bobby Deol as Abrar Haque
Leon Ung as young Abrar
Rashmika Mandanna as Geetanjali 'Gitu' Singh, Vijay's wife
Diyara Valecha as young Geetanjali
Tripti Dimri as Zoya Riaz
Charu Shankar as Jyoti Singh, Balbir's wife, and Reet, Vijay and Roop's mother
Babloo Prithiveeraj as Asrar Haque, Abrar's brother
Shakti Kapoor as PK Mishra, COO of Swastik Steels Corp.
Prem Chopra as Dalbir Dodamal Singh "Bade Daji", Rajdheer's elder brother
Madhu Raja as Rani Kaur "Beeji", Dalbir Singh's wife
Suresh Oberoi as Rajdheer Dodamal Singh "Dadaji", Vijay's grandfather and Balbir's father
Saurabh Sachdeva as Abid Haque, Abrar's brother
Saloni Batra as Reet Singh, Vijay's elder sister and Varun's wife, Balbir and Jyoti's eldest child
Neeven Vaid as young Reet
Anshul Chauhan as Roop Singh, Balbir and Jyoti's youngest child, Vijay and Reet's younger sister
Eva Chibber as young Roop
Siddhant Karnick as Varun Pratap Malhotra, Reet's husband, and Vijay's brother-in-law, Balbir's Son-in-law
Maganti Srinath as Karthik, Geetanjali's elder brother and Vijay's friend
Upendra Limaye as Freddy Wilfred Patil
Mathew Varghese as Shreepad Balaji Iyengar, Karthik and Geetanjali's father
Indira Krishnan as Motika S. Iyengar, Karthik and Geetanjali's mother
Mrinmayee Godbole as Dr. Amrita Naidoo


Production
Development
In September 2019, it was reported that Sandeep Reddy Vanga would turn into a producer for his next directional venture in Bollywood. It was further reported that he would produce the venture along with Murad Khetani, Ashwin Varde, Bhushan Kumar and Kishan Kumar under Cine1 Studios and T-Series. On 10 October, the company's and Vanga's new production banner Bhadrakali Pictures announced their collaboration for Vanga's next directional; marking their second collaboration after Kabir Singh (2019).In early December, Vanga was reported to have approached Ranbir Kapoor to play the lead role in the film. ETimes reported that Kapoor was "keen" to work on the film, however, would finalize it only after hearing the final script, which was still progressing writing.

In June 2020 however, it was reported that Vanga met Kapoor in January and narrated another script, which was reportedly titled Devil. In late December, Anil Kapoor was reported to be part of the cast. On 1 January 2021, the company's made an official public announcement of the venture, revealing also the title of the film and the crew.In late April, Bobby Deol and Parineeti Chopra were cast, with the former playing lead antagonist role, while the latter plays lead actress role.

In March 2022, Rashmika Mandanna was reported to dance in an item number for the film. The same month, it was reported that Chopra had replaced by Mandanna,as the director was not satisfied with the casting of chopra. On 2 April, Mandanna's commitments were officially announced.Mandanna called it "a dream come true."

Filming
Principal photography began in Manali in April 2022. The second schedule was in Mumbai in May 2022 and filming was held at Pataudi Palace in July 2022. The next schedules were held in Delhi and Punjab. The filming was wrapped up in mid-March 2023. The film resumed in England and Scotland beginning in April with a schedule of 15–20 days.


Release
Animal was initially set for an 11 August 2023 release, but was postponed due to post-production and dubbing work.[67] It was theatrically released on 1 December 2023 in standard and IMAX formats in Hindi with dubbed versions in Telugu, Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada languages.[9] The film was released across 4000 screens in India, the screen count was impacted due to the clash with Sam Bahadur which was releasing on the same day.[68]

The film had planned to premiere in North America on 30 November 2023, a day before its release.[69] In the United States, it will be screened in 888 theaters, marking the highest number for a Hindi film, surpassing the screen count of Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva (2022) and Jawan (2023).[70][71]

Animal received an A (adults only) certificate from the Central Board of Film Certification, a day prior to its trailer release, for strong bloody violence, profanity and some sexuality.[72] It has been classified 18 by the British Board of Film Classification for the same reason.[73]

Reception
Box office
Animal broke several box-office records for a Hindi film.[74][75][76][77] The film had the fourth-biggest advance booking in Hindi cinema, and the third-highest for 2023 after Jawan and Pathaan.[78] On its opening day, the film collected a total India net of ₹63.8 crore (US$8.0 million) second highest after Jawan, worldwide gross of ₹116 crore (US$15 million) including overseas gross of US$5.5 million (₹46 crore). Eventually it became the highest non-holiday opening of all time for a Hindi film breaking the previous record held by Ranbir Kapoor's Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva.[81] On its second day, netted over ₹67 crore and over ₹70 crore on third day in India for a three days total net collection of ₹201 crore and became one of the fastest Hindi film to achieve this after Jawan.[82][83] Worldwide it earned over ₹100 crore (US$13 million) for three consecutive days during its opening weekend, for a total worldwide weekend gross collection of ₹356 crore (US$42.1 million).[84] It had one of the highest Hindi net collection on its first Monday and Tuesday.[85][86] In the first week it earned a total worldwide gross collection of ₹563 crore (US$71 million). On its 8th day, the film surpassed the lifetime worldwide collection of Sanju (2018) and becomes the highest-grossing film of Kapoor's career. On its 17th day, the film reached ₹500 crore net collection across all languages in India and on the same day the film crosses 3 crore footfalls in India. Box Office India declared the film as All Time Blockbuster.

In the United States, the film was released alongside Renaissance: A Film by Beyoncé, Silent Night, Godzilla Minus One, and The Shift, and made $6.1 million from 888 theatres in its opening weekend, finishing in seventh place, behind the second weekend totals of Wish and Napoleon.[93] Worldwide, it emerged as the No. 1 film on its opening weekend with the total of $42.1 million including the $13.88 million of international markets, surpassing all the films globally. In its first week the film earned over $19.2 million from international markets.[4]

As of 2 January 2024, the film has grossed over ₹646.35 crore (US$81 million) in India and ₹241.34 crore (US$30 million) in overseas for a worldwide gross collection of ₹887.69 crore (US$110 million).

Critical response
The film received mixed reviews from critics and audiences with praise for its storytelling, direction, soundtrack, score, action sequences, and Kapoor's performance but some critics found it misogynistic and very lengthy.

On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 28% of 25 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 4.2/10. The website's consensus reads: "Overlong, overly violent, and thinly written, Animal goes wildly over the top to little avail."[95] Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 33 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews.

Awarding the film 4.5/5 stars, Bollywood Hungama praised "Ranbir Kapoor’s outstanding performance, clap-worthy massy scenes, and interval block."[97] Sukanya Verma of Rediff gave 4/5 stars and wrote "Animal is relentless as a euphoric medley of feral rage and dance of the dysfunctional. The twists go on well until end credits as more blood is splattered our way."[98] Ganesh Aaglave of Firstpost gave 3.5/5 stars and wrote "Animal is an adrenaline experience which will have polarising views but you can't deny its entertaining quotient, breathtaking performances and storytelling."[99] Puja Awasthi of The Week gave 3.5/5 stars and wrote "Animal for all its blood and gore, is the story of a son’s aching desire for his father’s approval. Why even its ballads are less romance, more revenge. And its female characters for all their luminosity, are just props".

Monika Rawal Kukreja of Hindustan Times found it "an absolute massy, entertaining and extremely violent thriller which doesn't believe in conforming to the norms", while adding that the extreme violence might be off-putting for some. Titas Chowdhury of News18 gave 3.5/5 stars, labelled it "dark, loud and garish but also unapologetic", and thought that Ranbir Kapoor "breathes life into this undesirable character with a lot of charisma and swag".[102] Abhimanyu Mathur of DNA India rated the film 3.5/5 and opined, "Animal takes everything that was problematic and increases it several notches. It is downright the most violent Hindi film I have seen, and also one of the most inherently toxic and misogynist. The amazing part is that it is still very well made and entertaining, enhanced further by yet another great performance from Kapoor".

Conversely, Renuka Vyavahare of The Times of India gave 2.5/5 stars and termed the film "all swag and no substance derailed family drama"; she was critical of "Vanga's take on women or violence" but praised Ranbir's "raw sex appeal and unmatched intensity". India Today's Anvita Singh gave 2/5 stars and wrote "Ranbir Kapoor is stellar in problematic, paper-thin film." Nandini Ramnath of Scroll.in wrote "Ranbir is on fire, inhabiting to a frightening degree Vijay’s delusional personal war. Reptile-eyed even at his smouldering best, Kapoor’s career-best performance makes Animal tough to stomach, but equally difficult to ignore".

In a negative review, Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express expressed disappointment that the performances of Ranbir and Anil Kapoor had been "wasted in this pointless, vile tale". Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV gave 1.5/5 stars and wrote "The sickeningly violent father-son action drama rarely pauses for breath." Sowmya Rajendran of The News Minute gave 1.5/5 stars and wrote "Sandeep Reddy Vanga's movie has the kind of writing you'll find in BDSM erotica like Fifty Shades of Grey, but presented with the same earnestness of 'pure love' that we saw in Arjun Reddy." Phuong Le of The Guardian gave 1/5 stars and wrote "Animal sinks even further into regressive depths, resulting in one of the vilest protagonists to have graced the big screen."

Sequel
The film's post-credits scene teases a sequel titled Animal Park, which was confirmed in December 2023 by director Sandeep Reddy Vanga. Shortly after the film's release, Vanga said the sequel would be "darker" and "meaner" than its predecessor.

